README.md, before:

# AI4Good - Satellite Overpass Time Comparison

![plots](assets/plots.webp)

## Members

-   [Oliver Calvet](mailto:ocalvet@student.ethz.ch)
-   [Yiyang He](mailto:yiyahe@student.ethz.ch)
-   [Alexandre Iskandar](mailto:aiskandar@student.ethz.ch)
-   [Cédric Laubacher](mailto:cedric@laubacher.io)
-   [Federico Mantovani](mailto:fmantova@student.ethz.ch)

## Contributing

### Cloning the Repo

I recommend setting up SSH for GitHub. You can find many great guides on this online. It just takes 5 minutes.

Then, you can clone the repo. Since we use Git LFS and Git submodules for managing the code, the setup is a bit more
involved, but you should only have to do it once.

```sh
# Get code
cd ~/git/projects  # Or wherever you want to put the code
git clone git@github.com:Starbix/Infrared_Marble.git
cd Infrared_Marble
# Set up Git LFS and Git submodules
git lfs install && git lfs fetch
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

### Dependencies

-   gdal

macOS: `brew install gdal`

### Python Environment

We use `conda`/`mamba` to manage the Python environment of this project. You can easily install `conda` through the
Anaconda Python distribution. Once installed, set up the environment:

```sh
conda env create -f environment.yaml    # Create from file
conda activate infrared-marble          # Activate
```

This will create a new environment called `infrared-marble`. This installs all necessary packages and sets some
environment variables.

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> You should activate your environment with `conda activate infrared-marble` whenever you are working on the project. In
> VS Code, you should look for the "Select Python Interpreter" or "Select Kernel" buttons, and choose the
> `infrared-marble` environment from the list.

## Login and Authorization

> [!WARNING]
>
> The following is sensitive information. If the repo should become public, please remove this information first
> (git-filter-repo)

### Black Marble

The Black Marble dataset requires users to authenticate with a Bearer token. This can be set up from the account I set
up:

| Login    | [Earthdata Login](https://urs.earthdata.nasa.gov/profile) |
| -------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| Username | === REDACTED EarthData username ===                                       |
| Password | === REDACTED EarthDAta password ===                                       |

Please do not share this information with externals, nor set the GitHub repository to public, as this would reveal the
login credentials.

A bearer token can now be generated on the "Generate Token" page. I already generated one for convenience. This token
**expires on May 20th 2025**. It is set as an environment variable in the Conda `environment.yaml` file, and should be
available as an envrionment variable as `BLACKMARBLE_TOKEN`.

### Luojia

| Login    | [Luojia Login](http://59.175.109.173:8888/app/login_en.html) |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Email    | <=== REDACTED login email ===>                                       |
| Password | === REDACTED luojia_password ===                                               |

### Visual Crossing

| Login    | [Visual Crossing Login](https://www.visualcrossing.com/account/login) |
| -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Email    | <=== REDACTED login email ===>                                                |
| Password | === REDACTED visualcrossing password ===                                     |

## Milestone I -- Project Proposal

**Project: Comparing overpass times of infrared nighttime-light satellite imagery**

**Supervisors:**

-   Corinne Bara \<<corinne.bara@sipo.gess.ethz.ch>\>
-   Sascha Sebastian Langenbach \<<sascha.langenbach@sipo.gess.ethz.ch>\>

### Project Focus

#### Research question

How does the ability to understand/analyze human behavior differ between the two data sources (NASA Black Marble,
Luojia)?

The aim of this project is to compare the satellite-images from the Black Marble dataset (NASA) to the ones gathered
from Luojia satellite (Chinese). This is interesting, because Luojia takes their images at around 10:30pm while NASA
takes them at 1:30am and human behavior could affect the light emission.

#### Ethical Considerations

It is important to keep in mind that the differences between the two satellites may be biased by location/cultural
differences. A certain bias can also come from the fact that we do not look at the whole dataset due to resource
constraints and incompleteness of Luojia data both location- and timewise.

### Use Case

The final product is for researchers that use nighttime light emission data in their projects in order to
support/falsify prior assumptions about night-light data discrepancies.

### Timeline

1. Understand the data (format, availability, ...) and find overlaps between the NASA and the Chinese data.
2. Overlap/align the data using adquate Python libraries.
3. Visualize differences in a Python Notebook.
4. Create UI specifically designed for the stakeholders (i.e. focus on responsiveness)

### Guiding Questions

-   In which areas (rural, urban, industrial, recrea onal, poor, rich…) is the difference between the satellite images
    biggest?
-   Are there temporal trends (e.g., weekday vs. weekend, holidays) that cause variations?
-   What are the technical differences between the two satellites (e.g. image processing methodologies, etc.)? (Read
    documenta on)
-   What is a fitting metric to compare the two?
-   _Follow up:_ Are crises detected more easily with the Loujia images or with the NASA images?

Commit message:

Publish images to docker hub

README.md, after:

# AI4Good - Satellite Overpass Time Comparison

![plots](assets/plots.webp)

## Members

-   [Oliver Calvet](mailto:ocalvet@student.ethz.ch)
-   [Yiyang He](mailto:yiyahe@student.ethz.ch)
-   [Alexandre Iskandar](mailto:aiskandar@student.ethz.ch)
-   [Cédric Laubacher](mailto:cedric@laubacher.io)
-   [Federico Mantovani](mailto:fmantova@student.ethz.ch)

## Quickstart

You can run the latest production version of the application locally with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/). Please
install it and make sure that the `docker compose` command is available.

```sh
# Clone the repository but don't check out any files
git clone -n git@github.com:Starbix/Infrared_Marble.git --depth 1 Infrared_Marble_prod
# CD into production repository copy
cd Infrared_Marble_prod
# Checkout just the necessary docker-compose file
git checkout docker-compose.prod.yaml
# Run app in production mode. This pulls the latest version from Docker Hub.
docker compose -f docker-compose.prod.yaml up
```

## Contributing

### Cloning the Repo

I recommend setting up SSH for GitHub. You can find many great guides on this online. It just takes 5 minutes.

Then, you can clone the repo. Since we use Git LFS and Git submodules for managing the code, the setup is a bit more
involved, but you should only have to do it once.

```sh
# Get code
cd ~/git/projects  # Or wherever you want to put the code
git clone git@github.com:Starbix/Infrared_Marble.git
cd Infrared_Marble
# Set up Git LFS and Git submodules
git lfs install && git lfs fetch
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

### Dependencies

-   gdal

macOS: `brew install gdal`

### Python Environment

We use `conda`/`mamba` to manage the Python environment of this project. You can easily install `conda` through the
Anaconda Python distribution. Once installed, set up the environment:

```sh
conda env create -f environment.yaml    # Create from file
conda activate infrared-marble          # Activate
```

This will create a new environment called `infrared-marble`. This installs all necessary packages and sets some
environment variables.

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> You should activate your environment with `conda activate infrared-marble` whenever you are working on the project. In
> VS Code, you should look for the "Select Python Interpreter" or "Select Kernel" buttons, and choose the
> `infrared-marble` environment from the list.

## Login and Authorization

> [!WARNING]
>
> The following is sensitive information. If the repo should become public, please remove this information first
> (git-filter-repo)

### Black Marble

The Black Marble dataset requires users to authenticate with a Bearer token. This can be set up from the account I set
up:

| Login    | [Earthdata Login](https://urs.earthdata.nasa.gov/profile) |
| -------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| Username | === REDACTED EarthData username ===                                       |
| Password | === REDACTED EarthDAta password ===                                       |

Please do not share this information with externals, nor set the GitHub repository to public, as this would reveal the
login credentials.

A bearer token can now be generated on the "Generate Token" page. I already generated one for convenience. This token
**expires on May 20th 2025**. It is set as an environment variable in the Conda `environment.yaml` file, and should be
available as an envrionment variable as `BLACKMARBLE_TOKEN`.

### Luojia

| Login    | [Luojia Login](http://59.175.109.173:8888/app/login_en.html) |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Email    | <=== REDACTED login email ===>                                       |
| Password | === REDACTED luojia_password ===                                               |

### Visual Crossing

| Login    | [Visual Crossing Login](https://www.visualcrossing.com/account/login) |
| -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Email    | <=== REDACTED login email ===>                                                |
| Password | === REDACTED visualcrossing password ===                                     |

## Milestone I -- Project Proposal

**Project: Comparing overpass times of infrared nighttime-light satellite imagery**

**Supervisors:**

-   Corinne Bara \<<corinne.bara@sipo.gess.ethz.ch>\>
-   Sascha Sebastian Langenbach \<<sascha.langenbach@sipo.gess.ethz.ch>\>

### Project Focus

#### Research question

How does the ability to understand/analyze human behavior differ between the two data sources (NASA Black Marble,
Luojia)?

The aim of this project is to compare the satellite-images from the Black Marble dataset (NASA) to the ones gathered
from Luojia satellite (Chinese). This is interesting, because Luojia takes their images at around 10:30pm while NASA
takes them at 1:30am and human behavior could affect the light emission.

#### Ethical Considerations

It is important to keep in mind that the differences between the two satellites may be biased by location/cultural
differences. A certain bias can also come from the fact that we do not look at the whole dataset due to resource
constraints and incompleteness of Luojia data both location- and timewise.

### Use Case

The final product is for researchers that use nighttime light emission data in their projects in order to
support/falsify prior assumptions about night-light data discrepancies.

### Timeline

1. Understand the data (format, availability, ...) and find overlaps between the NASA and the Chinese data.
2. Overlap/align the data using adquate Python libraries.
3. Visualize differences in a Python Notebook.
4. Create UI specifically designed for the stakeholders (i.e. focus on responsiveness)

### Guiding Questions

-   In which areas (rural, urban, industrial, recrea onal, poor, rich…) is the difference between the satellite images
    biggest?
-   Are there temporal trends (e.g., weekday vs. weekend, holidays) that cause variations?
-   What are the technical differences between the two satellites (e.g. image processing methodologies, etc.)? (Read
    documenta on)
-   What is a fitting metric to compare the two?
-   _Follow up:_ Are crises detected more easily with the Loujia images or with the NASA images?
